#Symptoms of COVID-19
Symptoms of COVID-19 can vary from person to person. Symptoms may also vary in different age groups. Some of the more commonly reported symptoms include: new or worsening cough,shortness of breath or difficulty breathing, temperature equal to or over 38°C, feeling feverish, chills, fatigue or weakness, muscle or body aches, new loss of smell or taste, headache, gastrointestinal symptoms (abdominal pain, diarrhea, vomiting),feeling very unwell.Children have been more commonly reported to have abdominal symptoms, and skin changes or rashes.In severe cases, infection can lead to death.Symptoms may take up to 14 days to appear after exposure to COVID-19.Recent evidence indicates that the virus can be transmitted to others from someone who is infected but not showing symptoms. This includes people who: have not yet developed symptoms (pre-symptomatic) ,never develop symptoms (asymptomatic).While experts know that these kinds of transmissions are happening among those in close contact or in close physical settings, it is not known to what extent. This means it is extremely important to follow the proven preventative measures.

#If you or your child become ill
If you are showing symptoms of COVID-19, reduce your contact with others: isolate yourself at home for 14 days to avoid spreading it to others, if you live with others, stay in a separate room or keep a 2-metre distance, visit a health care professional or call your local public health authority, call ahead to tell them your symptoms and follow their instructions. Children who have mild COVID-19 symptoms are able to stay at home with a caregiver throughout their recovery without needing hospitalization. If you are caring for a child who has suspected or probable COVID-19, it is important to follow the advice for caregivers. This advice will help you protect yourself, others in your home, as well as others in the community. If you become sick while travelling back to Canada: inform the flight attendant or a Canadian border services officer or advise a Canada border services agent on arrival in Canada if you believe you were exposed to someone who was sick with COVID-19, even if you do not have symptoms ,this is required under the Quarantine Act, the Canada border services agent will provide instructions for you to follow.

#Check if you have been exposed
Have you been on a recent flight, cruise, train, or at a public gathering? Check the listed exposure locations to see if you may have been exposed to COVID-19

#Take care of your mental health
The COVID-19 pandemic is new and unexpected. This situation can be unsettling and can cause a sense of loss of control. It is normal to feel sad, stressed, confused, scared or worried in a crisis. Make sure to care for your mental and physical wellbeing and to ask for help if you feel overwhelmed.

#Diagnosing coronavirus
Coronavirus infections are diagnosed by a health care provider based on symptoms and are confirmed through laboratory tests.

#Treating coronavirus
Most people with mild coronavirus illness will recover on their own.If you are concerned about your symptoms, you should self-monitor and consult your health care provider. They may recommend steps you can take to relieve symptoms.

#Vaccine, therapeutics and medical devices
At this time, a vaccine and therapies to treat or prevent this disease have not yet been identified. But research and development are underway. The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in a global review of therapies that may be used to treat or prevent the disease.

#Flu vaccine
If you have received a flu vaccine, it will not protect against coronaviruses, but will help prevent the flu. Getting the flu could make you more vulnerable to other infections. Getting the flu vaccine will not increase your risk of illness from coronavirus. 

#About coronaviruses
Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses. Some cause illness in people and others cause illness in animals. Human coronaviruses are common and are typically associated with mild illnesses, similar to the common cold. COVID-19 is a new disease that has not been previously identified in humans. Rarely, animal coronaviruses can infect people, and more rarely, these can then spread from person to person through close contact. There have been 2 other specific coronaviruses that have spread from animals to humans and which have caused severe illness in humans. These are the: Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS CoV),Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS CoV)

#How coronavirus spreads
Human coronaviruses cause infections of the nose, throat and lungs. They are most commonly spread from an infected person through: respiratory droplets generated when you cough or sneeze ,close, prolonged personal contact, such as touching or shaking hands, touching something with the virus on it, then touching your mouth, nose or eyes before washing your hands. Current evidence suggests person-to-person spread is efficient when there is close contact.

#Difference between quarantine (self-isolate) and isolate
There is a difference between advice to quarantine (self-isolate) and advice to isolate. These measures are in place to protect the health and safety of Canadians. Quarantine for 14 days if you have no symptoms and any of the following apply: you are returning from travel outside of Canada (mandatory quarantine) you had close contact with someone who has or is suspected to have COVID-19 ,you have been told by the public health authority that you may have been exposed and need to quarantine. You must isolate if any of the following apply: you have been diagnosed with COVID-19, or are waiting to hear the results of a lab test for COVID-19, you have symptoms of COVID-19, even if mild, you have been in contact with a suspected, probable or confirmed case of COVID-19, you have been told by public health that you may have been exposed to COVID-19, you have returned from travel outside Canada with symptoms of COVID-19 (mandatory)

#Preventing coronavirus
Canadians should continue to think ahead about the actions that they can take to stay healthy and prevent the spread of COVID-19 in Canada. Measures to reduce COVID-19 in your community are especially important as some areas begin to lift restrictions. As we continue to see transmission of the virus within different communities, we know that everyone must take precautions, even those who have not travelled outside of Canada. In an effort to prevent the spread of COVID-19 within communities and across the country, all Canadians are advised to: stay at home unless you have to go to work, talk to your employer about working at home if possible, avoid all non-essential trips in your community, do not gather in groups, limit contact with people at higher risk, such as older adults and those in poor health, go outside to exercise but stay close to home, if you leave your home, always keep a distance of at least 2 arms lengths (approximately 2 metres) from others, household contacts (people you live with) do not need to distance from each other unless they are sick or have travelled in the last 14 days.

#You can go for a walk if you: have not been diagnosed with COVID-19, do not have symptoms of COVID-19, have not travelled outside of Canada in the past 14 days, are not in quarantine (self-isolating), are not isolating. If you go out for a walk, do not congregate and always practise physical (social) distancing by keeping at least 2 metres apart from others at all times.

#Physical (social) distancing
Together, we can slow the spread of COVID-19 by making a conscious effort to keep a physical distance between each other. Physical (social) distancing is proven to be one of the most effective ways to reduce the spread of illness during an outbreak. This means making changes in your everyday routines to minimize close contact with others, including: avoiding crowded places and non-essential gatherings, avoiding common greetings, such as handshakes, limiting contact with people at higher risk like older adults and those in poor health, keeping a distance of at least 2 arms-length (approximately 2 metres) from others.

#Hygiene
Proper hygiene can help reduce the risk of infection or spreading infection to others: wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds, especially after using the washroom and when preparing food, use alcohol-based hand sanitizer if soap and water are not available, when coughing or sneezing, cough or sneeze into a tissue or the bend of your arm, not your hand, dispose of any tissues you have used as soon as possible in a lined waste basket and wash your hands afterwards, avoid touching your eyes, nose, or mouth with unwashed hands.

#Cleaning
Coronaviruses are one of the easiest types of viruses to kill with the appropriate disinfectant product when used according to the label directions. Health Canada has published a list of hard surface disinfectants that are likely to be effective for use against COVID-19. Although they do not claim to kill COVID-19, cleaners can play a role in limiting the transfer of microorganisms. Health Canada recommends cleaning high-touch hard surfaces often, using either regular household cleaners or diluted bleach according to the label directions. This bleach solution should be prepared according to the instructions on the label or in a ratio of 250 mL (1 cup) of water per 5 mL (1 teaspoon) of bleach. Directions are based on bleach that is 5% sodium hypochlorite, to give a 0.1% sodium hypochlorite solution. Never mix bleach with other chemical products and use it in a well-ventilated area. Special precautions must be used when cleaning with bleach to avoid serious incidents. These surfaces include: toilets, phones, electronics, door handles, bedside tables, television remotes.

#Wearing masks or face coverings
Medical masks, including surgical, medical procedure face masks and respirators (like N95 masks), must be kept for health care workers and others providing direct care to COVID-19 patients. Wearing a non-medical mask or face covering while out in public is recommended for periods of time when it is not possible to consistently maintain a 2-metre physical distance from others, particularly in crowded public settings, such as: stores, shopping areas, public transportation. Public health officials will make recommendations based on a number of factors, including the rates of infection and/or transmission in the community. Recommendations may vary from location to location. If you do choose to wear one, refer to the: guidelines on wearing non-medical masks and how to make your own, COVID-19 Special Advisory Committee's recommendations on the use of non-medical cloth masks or face coverings in community settings. Masks alone will not prevent the spread of COVID-19. You must consistently and strictly adhere to good hygiene and public health measures, including frequent hand washing and physical (social) distancing.

#Risks of getting coronavirus
COVID-19 is a serious health threat, and the situation is evolving daily. The risk will vary between and within communities, but given the increasing number of cases in Canada, the risk to Canadians is considered high. This does not mean that all Canadians will get the disease. It means that there is already a significant impact on our health care system. If we do not flatten the epidemic curve now, the increase of COVID-19 cases could impact health care resources available to Canadians. The risk for COVID-19 may be increased for certain settings such as: cruise ships, crowded areas (such as public transit and shopping centres), gatherings (spiritual and cultural settings, theatres, sports arenas, festivals and conferences).

#Check if you have been exposed
Have you been on a recent flight, cruise, train, or at a public gathering? Check the listed exposure locations to see if you may have been exposed to COVID-19.

#Vulnerable populations
There is an increased risk of more severe outcomes for Canadians: aged 65 and over, with compromised immune systems, with underlying medical conditions. People who fall into these categories as vulnerable populations should reconsider attending gatherings. This includes large gatherings and even smaller events in crowded or enclosed settings. If you have symptoms, do not attend a mass gathering, event or places where people gather. You could put someone whose health is vulnerable at risk.

#Travellers
The risk for getting COVID-19 may be increased for travellers. Canadians are advised to avoid all non-essential travel. If you must travel, check the latest travel advice before you leave. We will continue to adapt our risk assessment based on the latest data available.

#Pregnant women
Because COVID-19 is a new disease, we are still learning how it affects pregnant women. At this time, there is no evidence to suggest that pregnant women are at a greater risk for more serious outcomes related to COVID-19 or that their developing child could be negatively affected by COVID-19.You can protect yourself from becoming ill by taking the following precautions: stay home as much as possible, except for important medical appointments, talk to your doctor, obstetrician or midwife about the possibility of telephone or videoconference appointments, avoid unnecessary visitors to your home, wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds, use alcohol-based hand sanitizer if soap and water are not available, practise physical distancing by keeping a distance of at least 2 metres from others, avoid touching your mouth, nose and eyes, avoid crowded places and peak-hours, make limited trips to the store for essentials, avoid travel by public transit. For more information, refer to our advice for mothers on pregnancy, childbirth and caring for newborns. If you are pregnant and concerned about COVID-19, speak to your health care provider.

#Survival of coronaviruses on surfaces
It is not certain how long COVID-19 survives on surfaces, but it seems to behave like other coronaviruses. Preliminary information on COVID-19 suggests that the virus may persist on surfaces for a few hours or up to several days depending on different conditions, such as: temperature, type of surface, humidity of the environment.

#Surfaces and COVID
Surfaces frequently touched with hands are most likely to be contaminated, including: tables, handrails, doorknobs, electronics, countertops, light switches, faucet handles, cabinet handles, elevator buttons.

#Shipment Packages and COVID
Products shipped within or from outside of Canada could also be contaminated. However, because parcels generally take days or weeks to be delivered, and are shipped at room temperature, the risk of spread is low. There is no known risk of coronaviruses entering Canada on parcels or packages. To protect yourself from COVID-19, make sure to do the following when handling products shipped within or outside of Canada: use good hygiene measures, regularly clean and disinfect surfaces, do not touch your eyes, nose and mouth.

#Food
There is currently no evidence to suggest that food is a likely source or route of transmission of the virus and there are currently no reported cases of COVID-19 transmission through food. People are unlikely to be infected with the virus through food. Scientists and food safety authorities across the world are closely monitoring the spread of COVID-19. If we become aware of a potential food safety risk, appropriate actions will be taken to ensure the safety of Canada's food supply. Coronaviruses are killed by common cleaning and disinfection methods and by cooking food to safe internal temperatures.

#Animals in Canada
The current spread of COVID-19 is a result of human-to-human transmission. There is no evidence to suggest that animals infected by humans are playing a role in the spread of this disease. Animals and COVID-19 is an area that continues to be studied by scientists.

#False and misleading claims
We have not approved any product to prevent, treat or cure COVID-19. Selling unauthorized health products or making false or misleading claims to prevent, treat or cure COVID-19 is illegal in Canada. We take this matter very seriously and we are taking action to stop this activity. Health Canada has published a list of hard surface disinfectants that are likely to be effective for use against COVID-19. This list is updated regularly. Although they do not claim to kill viruses such as COVID-19, cleaners play a role in helping limit the transfer of microorganisms.We encourage anyone who has information regarding potential non-compliant sale or advertising of any health product claiming to treat, prevent or cure COVID-19, to report it using our online complaint form.

#5G and COVID
Exposure to electromagnetic fields (EMF) from 5G devices does not spread COVID-19. There is no scientific basis behind these claims. Both the World Health Organization and the International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection have also addressed these claims.

#Lifting public health measures
The status of the COVID-19 pandemic varies across Canada. Nationally, we’re seeing positive change from our actions. Public health measures to combat the spread of COVID-19 across Canada are flattening the curve and slowing the spread of new cases. The effects of COVID-19 vary between and within provinces and territories. Because of that, local governments, working with local public health authorities, may lift or change public health measures at different times depending on where you live. Your local government will: make decisions based on the local situation and the best evidence available at the time, tailor plans for lifting measures to their regions, including remote and isolated communities, gradually lift measures, allowing enough time between each step to assess the impact and adjust their plan, if required, monitor the effectiveness, harms and benefits of specific measures, and then adjust less effective measures as needed. National, provincial and local governments will continue public health efforts to minimize: serious illness and death, disruptions in our society, the burden on health care resources.

#For individuals
It takes more than actions from governments and the health sector to lower the spread of COVID-19. Everyone has a role to play. We can do our part by: understanding how coronavirus spreads, knowing how to prevent illness, taking care of our mental and physical wellbeing, With no treatment or vaccine available, actions we’re currently taking in our lives will need to continue to help control the spread of COVID-19. The following core public health practices will help you protect yourself and your community.

#Stay informed, be prepared and follow public health advice
Get credible information about COVID-19 from reliable sources. The Public Health Agency of Canada is a reliable source of information, as are provincial and territorial resources.   Continue to think ahead about what you’ll do if you become sick or someone in your family becomes sick and needs care. Plan for how you’ll arrange backup caregivers if you’re a caregiver of children or others. If your work is re-opening, talk to your employer about working from home if you’ll need to care for your family. Follow the advice of your local public health authority and adjust your behaviours and routines based on their advice.

#Make plans and talk about them
Talk to your family, friends and neighbours about what you’re doing to stay healthy and prevent the spread of COVID-19. If you live alone, consider setting up an agreement with a neighbour where you’ll check on each other and run errands if either of you become sick.Think about the type of care you’d want if you became seriously ill. Talk to the people who will decide on your care if you’re unable to. These discussions can help caregivers feel more comfortable and confident in making decisions you’d want. It’s not always easy to begin these conversations. You can get started with information, tools and prompts from advance care planning.

#For communities
Local governments continue to make public health decisions to lower the spread of COVID-19 in communities. The public health measures they keep in place depend on the COVID-19 activity in their area. As the spread of COVID-19 slows, governments will use a phased approach to slowly lift restrictions and control the spread of the virus. However, even when gradually lifting the restrictions, there will be an increased chance of COVID-19 spreading. Planners, administrators and employers must work together to protect: customers, employees, the general public, remote and isolated communities, vulnerable and most at-risk populations, people who are at high risk for serious illness from COVID-19. As the restrictions that have been in place are gradually lifted, we will continue to see the transmission of COVID-19 in communities. To lower the chance of spreading COVID-19, local governments will continue to apply public health measures in communities and public settings where people gather.

#Group living settings
Group living are settings where many people who aren’t in the same family unit live together. They may live there for a short or long period of time. Examples of these settings include: industrial camps, student residences, construction trailers, closed settings, such as:, residential care, correctional facilities, long-term care facilities, agricultural worker dormitories, overnight camps for children and teens, group homes for people with disabilities, shelters for people experiencing homelessness. These settings may include vulnerable and most at risk populations who have a higher chance for serious illness. You should adapt public health measures for your setting to prevent COVID-19 from entering and lower the chance of it spreading.

#Businesses and workplaces
Essential businesses have followed public health measures so they could stay open during the COVID-19 pandemic. Local governments will allow more categories of businesses to re-open if they can follow measures to lower the risk of spread of COVID-19. COVID-19 can spread in businesses and workplaces. Some workplaces in Canada have had outbreaks.

#Child and youth settings
As provinces and territories lift or adjust public health measures, child and youth settings need to prepare for re-opening or operating during the COVID-19 pandemic. Child and youth settings need to be aware of risks and put in place measures to lower them. These measures need to take into account: the different needs of girls, boys, and gender diverse children and youth, other cultural, linguistic and social contexts, the advice, guidance and resources from local public health authority and partners. Work with your local public health and education authorities and partners to consider strategies and options.

#Outdoor spaces
Outdoor spaces and outdoor recreational activities are important to our health, well-being and social connections.Outdoor spaces include: parks, trails, beaches, dog parks, playgrounds, outdoor recreation spaces.
#Activities
Lower your chances of becoming infected or spreading COVID-19 by participating in activities where you can keep physical distancing, such as: activities you can do safely by yourself, low-contact sports, like golf or tennis, activities that only include the people who live with you.

#Operators of Spaces
Operators of parks, playgrounds, public swimming pools and campgrounds can lower the spread of COVID-19 by: limiting large gatherings, posting signs and monitors at busy locations to encourage physical distancing, telling people to avoid sharing equipment unless they clean and disinfect it between use, controlling the number of admissions to facilities to prevent overcrowding, limiting activities that involve physical contact and only allowing sports that allow for physical distancing, removing or closing features that encourage people to gather, such as clubhouses (except for washrooms), setting up hand hygiene areas if public washrooms are closed, such as hand sanitizer or hand washing stations, adjusting rules and methods of play to promote physical distancing, as some sports associations have recommended.

#Cultural and religious gatherings
We regularly hold cultural and religious gatherings with friends and family, which can highlight important milestones in our lives, such as: funerals, baptisms, weddings, birthday parties, cultural ceremonies.The chance of COVID-19 spreading at these gatherings ranges from low to high, depending on a number of factors.

#Community gathering spaces
Community gathering places include places of worship, libraries, community and recreation centres, drop-in centres, museums, theatres and cinemas. The chance of COVID-19 spreading at these spaces depends on the: number of participants, characteristics of the participants, personal interactions participants may have on site, measures put in place by event organizers to reduce risk of virus spread.

#Lower Spread in Community Spaces
You can lower the spread of COVID-19 in community gathering places by: hosting events online or providing event-related resources online, ensuring attendees can keep physical distancing in your setting, limiting the number of people in your setting at any one time, installing physical barriers between employees and guests where possible, ensuring ill people don’t attend your gathering space or event, accommodating guests who have a higher chance of getting seriously ill, cleaning and disinfecting items that people share, using non-medical masks or cloth face coverings if physical distancing isn’t possible.

#Large group events
Large group events (mass gatherings) are settings or events where large numbers of people may be in close contact. It’s unlikely that governments will allow mass gatherings to take place anytime soon. Event organizers and planners should speak with their public health authorities for recommendations. You may need to cancel, postpone or change in-person gatherings. You may be able to re-design your event to meet physical distancing guidelines, such as offering virtual or online alternatives.

#Public transportation
Public transit services are essential to communities. Crowded public transit can add to the spread of COVID-19. Measures to lower these risks include: collecting fares and tolls hands-free, minimizing shared rides in vehicles, such as taxis and rideshares, requiring that employees, drivers and passengers stay home when ill, using non-medical masks or cloth face coverings by drivers and passengers, providing enough vehicles to prevent crowding, such as adding extra vehicles at rush hours, cleaning between driver change-overs, in addition to regular cleaning of vehicles and waiting areas, having passengers sit apart from each other (such as using every other seat) on buses, subways and trains, installing acrylic/plastic shields for staff at booths and between the driver and passengers. Another measure to reduce crowding on public transit is to avoid non-essential travel during peak commuting hours. Talk to your employer about the possibility of staggered work hours.

#Remote and isolated communities
Many remote and isolated communities have adopted strategies to keep COVID-19 out of their community. They’ll likely maintain these strategies for a long time. If COVID-19 enters these settings, it can spread rapidly. It’s important for community members to use core personal public health practices and community-based measures.

#Organizations that serve people experiencing homelessness
People who experience homelessness may have a higher chance of getting COVID-19 or developing complications. This is because they may not be able to access or use traditional services or resources.

